Group 2
IST 210
Professor Dudas
2/28/2020

Nowadays, people use digital music streaming services to listen to songs and make a playlist of their favorite ones. One of the biggest and most successful companies is Spotify. This application clearly has been using a lot of data analysis techniques to make it such a successful one. However, there are some parts where this function hasn’t been utilized to the maximum, like helping the artists choose the best place to tackle their marketing or in other words, promote themselves. We often see cases where listeners and fans become very disappointed because the artist did not visit their country on tours. Therefore, the goal of the idea presented here is to know the region where an artist is most popular. This idea uniquely functions as a tool to help artists map their tours more precisely and thus, satisfying a lot more fans. The entities that will be presented in this small database are songs, users, country, artists, song views, and most popular artists in the country. The songs entity contains two primary keys, songID and artistID. These also serve as foreign keys as well. The user entity contains different attributes about the user. The country entity contains the country’s ID and the country name. The artist’s entity contains attributes about the artists, for example, what country the artist is from. The song views entity is an end-user entity, so it is similar to a “transactions” entity, but in this case, it refers to songs. Every time that a song is being listened to, it will be added to the table. This entity contains two foreign keys as well, song ID and user ID, which show what song is being listened to and who is listening to it. Finally, the most popular artist in the country entity shows our final result of what we want to achieve in this example. This entity has two primary keys, artist ID and country ID, along with some other foreign keys. Overall, all of these entities put together in our entity relationship diagram help us to show the association of artist and country, so that we can determine which region an artist is most popular.

